# mongodb-java-angularjs
A project using:
<br>1. MongoDB as your database, inside a docker container. 
<br>2. Java as your back-end language, with spring data. 
<br>3. Angular.js as your front-end framework.
<br>This project will be separeted in 3 parts, respectively.

I am expecting you to have:
<ul>
<li>Access to a terminal.</li>
<li>Docker installed.</li>
<li>Postman installed.</li>
<li>Some IDE from your choice.</li>
</ul>

<h1>MongoDB</h1>
MongoDB is a non-relational dabase, it is a very useful tool but you have to think first if it fits to your necessity. Our choice is made just in order to have contact with the technology. So, shall we begin?

Inside a terminal, pull the lastest image of MongoDB:
> docker pull mongo

Now that you have the image, let's make a container:
> docker run -d -p 27017-27019:27017-27019 --name mongodb -v "/home/padovese/Desktop/github/mongodbfiles:/data/db/" mongo

Ok, so much information here. Let's split it:
<br><b><i>Docker run</i></b> is the command to up a container.
<br><b><i>-d</i></b> stands for detach, it means that your container will be started in background, so you can still use your terminal or even close it.
<br><i><b>-p 27017-27019:27017-27019</i></b> stands for publish list, a list of ports that will be mapped between the conatiner and the host.
<br><i><b>--name mongodb</i></b> That's the name of your container.
<br><i><b>-v "/home/padovese/Desktop/github/mongodbfiles:/data/db/"</i></b> That's the volume list. This is very important, here you are telling to the container to bind some directory inside the container, to a directory inside the host. In practice, it works the same way as a shared folder. The separetor is the character <i><b>":"</i></b>.And obvious, change it to some directory that makes sense from your PC.
<br><i><b>mongo</i></b> the image we just pulled.

To make sure your container is running, you can run this:
> docker ps

You should see something like this:
>> CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                  NAMES
<br>85042f73b5b7        mongo               "docker-entrypoint.s…"   3 weeks ago         Up 4 seconds        0.0.0.0:27017-27019->27017-27019/tcp   mongodb

Fine, it is running.
<br>Why are we nothing verifying that's there a MongoDB running inside of this?
<br>Let's dive in the container:
> docker exec -it mongodb bash

This command is basically telling the docker to execute the bash of this container, you should had notice you are not in your host anymore. Something like this appeared:
>> root@85042f73b5b7:/# 

Fine, you can do everything from here, you can explore the container using your usual commands like ls, cd, etc. etc...
<br>To see if MongoDB is installed and running(obviously it is, but whatever), run the command:
> mongo

Then:
>> MongoDB shell version v4.0.11
<br>...

You are now inside the database.

> show dbs;

Then
>> admin   0.000GB
<br>config  0.000GB
<br>local   0.000GB


You are now able to use some database, create some collections(here does not exist tables) or make some queries. But we are not doing it. Well, is better to say that we will let this task to Spring Data handle. 
<br>Just type ctrl c to escape, and after that type exit to come back to your host.

<b>Type:</b> After you restart your PC the container will not start automatically, you can control it with the commands below:
>docker start monogodb
<br>docker stop mongodb

Easiest part of the tutorial, your database is setted.

<h1>Java</h1>
Dependencias: 
- Rest Repository, Spring Data MongoDB //Essentials
- Optional Lombok, Spring Boot DevTools, thymeleaf

Classes to create:
Apllication -> This class is auto generated by spring initialzr. Just run it to start the application.
Wine -> This is the Pojo that represents an Entity. 
WineType -> Just an ENUM.
WineRepository -> 





-- Angular.js


Refs:
https://www.thepolyglotdeveloper.com/2019/01/getting-started-mongodb-docker-container-deployment/

https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb/

https://spring.io/guides/tutorials/react-and-spring-data-rest/
